---
title: Subspace CLI
sidebar_position: 1
description: Farming on the Subspace Network
keywords:
    - Farmer
    - Farming
    - CLI
    - Binaries
    - GitHub
---

:::tip Recommended
[Subspace CLI](https://github.com/subspace/subspace-cli) is the recommended way to farm on the Subspace Network. Follow the guide below to get started or check out the project [README on GitHub](https://github.com/subspace/subspace-cli/blobl/main/README.md).
:::

## I. Installation

---

### A. System Requirements

:::danger Farming can be Network Intensive.

Make sure you have a stable network connection. During the plotting phase of farming, it can be network intensive.

This may impact your network usage so please check your network connection if you have a hard data limit.
:::

Subspace CLI requires commodity hardware specs to operate. At a **minimum**, you should have:

* CPU with greater than 2 cores
* 4 GB RAM (8 GB is **recommended**)
* 150 GB Storage


### B. Getting a Crypto Wallet

Make sure you have a crypto wallet to accumulate farming rewards. Check out the Crypto Wallet page for more information.

### C. Downloading the Release Binaries

:::caution ALPHA SOFTWARE
Subspace CLI is  in **alpha**.
Please feel free to file bug reports on our GitHub issues.
Subspace CLI is still in alpha.
:::

Compiled versions of the Subspace CLI is [hosted on GitHub](https://github.com/subspace/subspace-cli/releases). This is the recommended way to install the application.

## II. Configuration

Getting started with Subspace CLI can be done with:

```bash
subspace-cli init
```

This will prompt you to setup your CLI configurations to begin farming. You should see a similar prompt like so:

```bash
$ ./subspace-cli-ubuntu-x86_64-v0.1.0-alpha init

version: 0.1.0

SUBSPACE NETWORK

Configuration creation process has started...
Enter your farmer/reward address: REDACTED_ADDRESS
Enter your node name to be identified on the network(defaults to `username`, press enter to use the default):
Specify a plot location (press enter to use the default: `"/home/username/.local/share/subspace-cli/plots"`):
Specify a plot size (defaults to `100.0 GB`, press enter to use the default):
Specify the chain to farm(defaults to `dev`, press enter to use the default):
Configuration has been generated at /home/username/.config/subspace-cli
Ready for lift off! Run the follow command to begin:
`./subspace-cli farm`
```



import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

:::info Finding your settings.toml

After running `subspace-cli init`, the prompt will display where the `settings.toml` is generated. However in case you missed it, you can find the file based on your operating system:

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="linux"><code>$HOME/.config/subspace-cli/settings.toml</code></TabItem>
    <TabItem value="macos"><code>$HOME/Library/Application Support/subspace-cli/settings.toml</code></TabItem>
    <TabItem value="windows"><code>$FOLDERID_RoamingAppData/subspace-cli/settings.toml</code></TabItem>
</Tabs>
:::



### A. Gemini 3 Testnet

:::tip Use the default generated configuration!
The default configuration generated by Subspace CLI will have you ready for Gemini 3.
:::

If you are using the default configurations from Subspace CLI, you are ready to go with the Gemini 3 Testnet. Alternatively, you can ensure this occurs by manually setting the network like so.

Open your `settings.toml` directory and ensure your `chain` is correctly specified to `gemini-3a` as so:


```toml
# settings.toml
[node]
chain = 'gemini-3a'
# ... redacted ... 
```

### B. Local Development

To run Subspace CLI in a local development mode, modify your `settings.toml` and ensure your `chain` points to `dev`:

```toml
# settings.toml
[node]
chain = 'dev'
# ... redacted ... 
```

## III. Farming
